I want to show you this article from The
Verge because I think it actually does a
great job of illustrating the
differences between passively collected
data at scale and Survey data which look
I think surveys are great for a bunch of
things but asking people in surveys what
they do in my opinion is is not great
what do you do online which sites do you
visit the most uh what's your favorite
social media tool well favorite is fine
most used not not so good so this
article looks at a big study that they
did with with a bunch of surveys and the
research covers platform shifts and
declining connection and the big
takeaways from their survey which which
I think is more than a thousand people
is Big platforms are losing trust uh
Google and social platforms are rapidly
losing ground as trust and authenticity
fade more people are flocking to AI chat
boots nich Niche communities and
platforms like Tik Tok is that true
digital spaces are coming up short
content drives Community AI is powerful
but not overs welcome seems at odds with
the thing they said first so I if you
were to go and look at for example this
some data from gwi who's uh collecting
this from uh sensor Tower so these are
installs of apps on phones phone devices
boy it sure looks like the big ones
YouTube Facebook Instagram are huge and
then and then Tik Tok is you know on on
less than half those phones doesn't
align very well with with what people
are saying and look I mean I think this
is a this is another challenging thing
if you're asking people hey where are
you discovering Brands where do you find
out about things and people say Oh Yeah
from social media is where I find out
about brands well I think look if you're
browsing Tik Tok for Brands I think
that's a very memorable experience and
if you're instead going to Google and
searching for Brands that's not a very
memorable experience it it is much less
going to stick in your brain and when
you're asked about it in a survey you're
not going to remember I I think it's
fine to survey people and ask them these
things but the data does not compare to
having millions of devices and looking
at what's on them which is what sensor
Tower does or using clickstream data
like what Doos or or um similar web uh
or other folks in in that field collect
and use to show real behavior from real
devices owned by real people and look I
think the biggest thing here is you you
might not actually care what people
whether whether you know this data is
correct or this data is correct you kind
of don't care what you care about is
your audience you want to know for the
people who might buy from you and the
people you need to Market to where are
they going and that's why I think
clickstream data is so useful because
for example
this the new spark Toro interface I'm
not sure if I'm supposed to be showing
it off yet oh well uh you can see which
networks are most used by graphic
designers right and so hey more so by
graphic designers than any else behance
dribble sled share threads DV and art
like I don't think this surprises a lot
of people these are specific communities
where designers often go but knowing
this data as opposed to you know going
oh well I guess we should do YouTube and
Facebook and
Instagram I I just think it's not as
helpful to have that data at scale and
I'm also not a big believer in survey
methodology for these kinds of questions
over real data collected from real
devices